Understanding the decentralised storage system with Celo.md, before:

---
title: Unit Testing with Truffle and Celo
description: How to Write Unit Testing for Smart Contracts with Truffle

authors:
  - name: Mayowa Julius Ogungbola
    title: Software Engineer, Technical writer @Celo Foundation
    url: https://github.com/Julius170
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/69092079?s=400&u=f34c84ee03afb9a51b163652b750419e98ed7456&v=4
tags: [celo,intermediate,celosage,truffle,smartcontract,solidity]
hide_table_of_contents: true
slug: /tutorials/how-to-write-unit-testing-for-smart-contract-with-truffle
---

![header](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69092079/216377599-79056c47-ea78-467b-bf16-53c378bdcae0.png)


## Introduction​
Decentralized storage systems are becoming increasingly popular as a way to store data securely and efficiently. With the rise of blockchain technology, decentralized storage systems have become even more attractive due to their ability to provide secure, distributed storage solutions. One such system is Celo, which is a decentralized storage system built on the Ethereum blockchain. 

Celo provides a secure, distributed storage solution that is both cost-effective and reliable. In this article, we will discuss the benefits of building a decentralized storage system on Celo and how to go about doing so. We will also explore the advantages of using Celo as a decentralized storage system and how it can be used to store data securely and efficiently.

## Prerequisites​
This tutorial assumes you have a fundamental knowledge of the following concepts

* Knowledge of distributed systems: A decentralized storage system requires an understanding of distributed systems and how they work. 

* Understanding of consensus algorithms: Building a decentralized storage system requires an understanding of consensus algorithms and how they can be used to coordinate distributed storage. 

* Knowledge of distributed file systems: Understanding distributed file systems is essential for designing and building a decentralized storage system. 

* Knowledge of Celo: Celo is a platform for building decentralized applications. Understanding Celo’s architecture and development environment is necessary for building a decentralized storage system. 

* Knowledge of cryptography: Cryptography is essential for securing data in a decentralized storage system. A basic understanding of cryptography and its applications is required.



# What is a Decentralized Storage System
A decentralized system is a type of system that relies on a distributed network of computers to manage, store and process data, instead of relying on a single centralized source. This type of system has many advantages over traditional centralized systems, such as increased security and reliability, and they provide greater flexibility and control over data ownership and access.




Decentralized storage systems typically utilize a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, which allows users to store and access data from multiple locations. This means that if one of the computers or servers within the system fails, the data will still be accessible from other nodes in the system. This makes decentralized storage systems much more reliable and resilient than traditional centralized systems. 


Additionally, decentralized storage systems provide users with greater control over their data, as they can choose who can access and modify the data. This helps to ensure that only authorized users have access to sensitive information. Finally, decentralized storage systems are much more cost-effective than traditional centralized storage systems, as they do not require expensive hardware or software to maintain.


# The Benefits of a Decentralized Storage Systems
Decentralized storage systems offer many benefits for those looking to store large amounts of data. 
By eliminating the need for a centralized server, decentralized storage systems allow individuals and businesses to securely store and share data without having to worry about physical or virtual security threats. 

One of the greatest benefits of decentralized storage systems is the increased security they provide. By eliminating the need for a centralized server, decentralized storage systems can effectively prevent data breaches and hacks. 

In addition, decentralized storage systems offer enhanced privacy protection as the data is stored in a distributed network instead of a single location. As a result, users can keep their data safe from any potential malicious actors. 

Another major benefit of decentralized storage systems is their accessibility. As the data is stored across a distributed network, users can access their data from anywhere at any time. Furthermore, decentralized storage systems are incredibly versatile, allowing users to store a variety of different file types including images, documents, audio files, and videos. 

This makes it much easier for businesses to store and share their data with employees, customers, and other stakeholders.
Some other benefits of the decentralized storage system are;

1. Increased Security: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer improved security as the data is stored on a distributed network and is not concentrated in one central node. This means that the data is less vulnerable to malicious attacks or data breaches. 

2. Improved Availability: Decentralized storage systems on Celo ensure improved availability as the data is stored on multiple nodes, which means that it is still accessible even if one or more nodes are down. 

3. Cost Benefits: Decentralized storage systems on Celo are cost-effective as they require fewer resources than traditional storage systems. This also means that there is no need to purchase or maintain additional hardware or software. 

4. Scalability: Decentralized storage systems on Celo are easily scalable as they can be scaled up or down as needed. This means that the system can easily accommodate increasing demands and changing requirements.

5. Enhanced Data Integrity: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer enhanced data integrity as data is stored across multiple nodes, which ensures that the data remains consistent and reliable.

6. Improved Efficiency: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer improved efficiency as the data is stored in a distributed manner, which means that data can be accessed more quickly and efficiently.



# Types Of Decentralized Storage Systems
One of the most common types of decentralized storage systems is Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks. In a P2P network, each node in the network can access and store files from other nodes in the network without the need for a central server. This allows for a more secure, decentralized system as the data is not all stored in one place, making it much harder for hackers to access. Additionally, as the data is spread out across multiple nodes, it is easier for users to access the data they need, resulting in faster access times. 

Another type of decentralized storage system is blockchain-based storage. In this type of system, data is stored on the blockchain, a distributed ledger that records data in an immutable and secure manner. This makes it much harder for hackers to access or tamper with the data, and also allows users to access the data they need quickly. 

Additionally, blockchain-based storage is much more cost effective than traditional storage systems.
Some other types of decentralized storage systems are;

1. Distributed File System: A distributed file system is a type of file system that stores data files across multiple nodes in a network. Distributed file systems are advantageous because they are fault-tolerant, meaning that they can continue to function even if one or more of their components fail. 

2. Peer-to-Peer Storage: Peer-to-peer storage is a type of decentralized storage system where data is stored on multiple computers in a network rather than on one central server. This type of system is often used in peer-to-peer networks, such as BitTorrent, for sharing files. 

3. Blockchains: Blockchains are a type of decentralized storage system that is based on a distributed ledger technology. In a blockchain, data is stored on a series of blocks that are linked together in a chain. This type of system is used to securely store and process transactions, as well as to provide a secure way to store data. 

4. IPFS: Interplanetary File System (IPFS) is a type of peer-to-peer distributed file system. It is designed to store and share files in a decentralized manner. IPFS uses a content-addressed storage system, which allows for faster and more secure data storage and retrieval. 

5. Object Storage: Object storage is a type of storage system that stores data in the form of objects. Objects are stored in a distributed manner across multiple servers and can be accessed using APIs. Object storage is often used for storing large amounts of unstructured data, such as images, videos, and audio files.


# Short Comings Of the Decentralized Storage System

One of the primary short comings of decentralized storage systems is their scalability. As more data is added to the system, the performance of the system can suffer. This is due to the fact that all the data must be replicated across all the nodes in the system. 

The speed of the system is also limited by the speed of the slowest node in the system. This can be especially problematic if there is a node which has a slow connection or is running on older hardware. 
Decentralized storage systems are also not always as secure as other storage solutions. Even if the data is encrypted, if the system is hacked, the hacker can gain access to all the data stored across all the nodes. As such, it is important to make sure that the system is secure, and that the data is encrypted with strong encryption.

1. Limited Storage Capacity: Decentralized storage systems have a limited storage capacity due to the fact that each node in the system stores only a portion of the total data. This means that the total storage capacity of a system is limited by the number of nodes in the network. 

2. Poor Performance: Decentralized storage systems are often slower than centralized systems due to the fact that they require multiple nodes to communicate with each other in order to access and store data. This can result in increased latency and decreased throughput. 

3. Lack of Security: Decentralized storage systems are vulnerable to malicious attacks due to the lack of centralized control. This means that malicious actors can potentially access and corrupt data stored in the system. 

4. High Maintenance Costs: Decentralized storage systems require regular maintenance in order to ensure that data is stored in an efficient and secure manner. This can result in increased costs for organizations that use decentralized storage solutions. 

5. Complexity: Decentralized storage systems are often complex and difficult to manage due to the fact that they require multiple nodes to communicate with each other in order to access and store data. This can result in increased complexity for organizations that use decentralized storage solutions.


# Building a Decentralized Storage on Celo

Building a decentralized storage system on Celo with the use of a few different technologies. First, you'll need to use the Celo blockchain platform to store the data. This means setting up a Celo node with the ability to store and retrieve data. You'll also need to use a distributed ledger technology such as Ethereum to secure the data.
Finally, you'll need a file storage protocol such as IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) to store and distribute the data across the network. 

To start, you'll need to configure your Celo node to store the data. This involves setting up the blockchain, creating accounts, and connecting to the network. Once connected, you'll need to configure the node to store the data. 
This may include setting up a private key to encrypt the data and specifying the type of data that will be stored. Next, you'll need to configure Ethereum to secure the data. This involves setting up an Ethereum smart contract to store the data and control access to it. 

You'll also need to register the data on the Ethereum blockchain by creating a transaction to record the data. Finally, you'll need to configure the IPFS protocol to store and distribute the data. This involves setting up a node on the IPFS network and configuring it to store the data. Once configured, the data can be stored and distributed across the IPFS network. 

Once these technologies have been set up, the data can be stored and retrieved securely from the Celo blockchain platform. This is an ideal solution for organizations that need to store large amounts of data in a secure and decentralized manner.

On the other hand, if you want to build decentralized storage from scratch, you might want to consider the following steps;

1. Research existing decentralized storage systems: Start by researching existing decentralized storage solutions, such as IPFS, Storj, Sia, Filecoin, and others. Understand the differences between them, their advantages and disadvantages, and decide which best fits your needs. 

2. Develop a blockchain: Decide which blockchain you will use to build the decentralized storage system, such as Ethereum or Hyperledger Fabric. Develop the necessary smart contracts and APIs for the system. 

3. Design the architecture: Outline the architecture of the system, including the network topology, data storage, and security protocols. 

4. Create a data model: Create a data model that will be used to store the data in the system. This will include the data structure, data types, and the rules for how the data should be stored. 

5. Implement the backend: Develop the backend system for the decentralized storage system, including the necessary APIs and the logic for the system. 
6. Develop the front end: Develop the front end of the system, which will include the user interface, the logic for interacting with the system, and the security protocols. 

7. Test and deploy: Test the system thoroughly to make sure it is secure

## Conclusion​
Understanding the decentralized storage system with Celo is important for those looking to benefit from the technology. By leveraging the distributed storage of Celo, users can gain better control of their data and use it in a more secure and private environment.

Celo offers a low-cost solution for businesses and organizations looking to store data securely and reliably. With its advanced security and reliability, Celo can help users maintain their data privacy and ensure the integrity of their data. It is a great solution for those looking for a secure, reliable storage solution in the decentralized world.

## Next Steps​
Here are some other related tutorial articles you can follow up on to learn more about the Decentralilzed Storage:

* [Decentralized Storage Decoded: A Guide to Implementing IPFS DAGs and Merkle Trees](https://www.celosage.com/decentralized-storage-decoded-a-guide-to-implementing-ipfs-dags-and-merkle-trees/)

## About the Author​
Mayowa Julius Ogungbola

Is a Sotware Engineer and Technical writer @Celo, always open to working on new ideas. I enjoy working on [Github](https://github.com/Julius170/), you can connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/julius-ogungbola-a71810229/).

Commit message:

Update Understanding the decentralised storage system with Celo.md

Understanding the decentralised storage system with Celo.md, after:

---
title: Understanding the Decentralized Storage System
description: This tutorial is a comprehensive and explanatory guide to understanding the decentralized storage system

authors:
  - name: Mayowa Julius Ogungbola
    title: Software Engineer, Technical writer @Celo Foundation
    url: https://github.com/Julius170
    image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/69092079?s=400&u=f34c84ee03afb9a51b163652b750419e98ed7456&v=4
tags: [celo,intermediate,celosage,]
hide_table_of_contents: true
slug: /tutorials/understanding the decentralized storage system
---

![header](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69092079/216377599-79056c47-ea78-467b-bf16-53c378bdcae0.png)


# Introduction​
Decentralized storage systems are becoming increasingly popular as a way to store data securely and efficiently. With the rise of blockchain technology, decentralized storage systems have become even more attractive due to their ability to provide secure, distributed storage solutions. One such system is Celo, which is a decentralized storage system built on the Ethereum blockchain. 

Celo provides a secure, distributed storage solution that is both cost-effective and reliable. In this article, we will discuss the benefits of building a decentralized storage system on Celo and how to go about doing so. We will also explore the advantages of using Celo as a decentralized storage system and how it can be used to store data securely and efficiently.

## Prerequisites​
This tutorial assumes you have a fundamental knowledge of the following concepts

* Knowledge of distributed systems: A decentralized storage system requires an understanding of distributed systems and how they work. 

* Understanding of consensus algorithms: Building a decentralized storage system requires an understanding of consensus algorithms and how they can be used to coordinate distributed storage. 

* Knowledge of distributed file systems: Understanding distributed file systems is essential for designing and building a decentralized storage system. 

* Knowledge of Celo: Celo is a platform for building decentralized applications. Understanding Celo’s architecture and development environment is necessary for building a decentralized storage system. 

* Knowledge of cryptography: Cryptography is essential for securing data in a decentralized storage system. A basic understanding of cryptography and its applications is required.



# What is a Decentralized Storage System
A decentralized system is a type of system that relies on a distributed network of computers to manage, store and process data, instead of relying on a single centralized source. This type of system has many advantages over traditional centralized systems, such as increased security and reliability, and they provide greater flexibility and control over data ownership and access.




Decentralized storage systems typically utilize a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, which allows users to store and access data from multiple locations. This means that if one of the computers or servers within the system fails, the data will still be accessible from other nodes in the system. This makes decentralized storage systems much more reliable and resilient than traditional centralized systems. 


Additionally, decentralized storage systems provide users with greater control over their data, as they can choose who can access and modify the data. This helps to ensure that only authorized users have access to sensitive information. Finally, decentralized storage systems are much more cost-effective than traditional centralized storage systems, as they do not require expensive hardware or software to maintain.


# The Benefits of a Decentralized Storage Systems
Decentralized storage systems offer many benefits for those looking to store large amounts of data. 
By eliminating the need for a centralized server, decentralized storage systems allow individuals and businesses to securely store and share data without having to worry about physical or virtual security threats. 

One of the greatest benefits of decentralized storage systems is the increased security they provide. By eliminating the need for a centralized server, decentralized storage systems can effectively prevent data breaches and hacks. 

In addition, decentralized storage systems offer enhanced privacy protection as the data is stored in a distributed network instead of a single location. As a result, users can keep their data safe from any potential malicious actors. 

Another major benefit of decentralized storage systems is their accessibility. As the data is stored across a distributed network, users can access their data from anywhere at any time. Furthermore, decentralized storage systems are incredibly versatile, allowing users to store a variety of different file types including images, documents, audio files, and videos. 

This makes it much easier for businesses to store and share their data with employees, customers, and other stakeholders.
Some other benefits of the decentralized storage system are;

1. Increased Security: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer improved security as the data is stored on a distributed network and is not concentrated in one central node. This means that the data is less vulnerable to malicious attacks or data breaches. 

2. Improved Availability: Decentralized storage systems on Celo ensure improved availability as the data is stored on multiple nodes, which means that it is still accessible even if one or more nodes are down. 

3. Cost Benefits: Decentralized storage systems on Celo are cost-effective as they require fewer resources than traditional storage systems. This also means that there is no need to purchase or maintain additional hardware or software. 

4. Scalability: Decentralized storage systems on Celo are easily scalable as they can be scaled up or down as needed. This means that the system can easily accommodate increasing demands and changing requirements.

5. Enhanced Data Integrity: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer enhanced data integrity as data is stored across multiple nodes, which ensures that the data remains consistent and reliable.

6. Improved Efficiency: Decentralized storage systems on Celo offer improved efficiency as the data is stored in a distributed manner, which means that data can be accessed more quickly and efficiently.



# Types Of Decentralized Storage Systems
One of the most common types of decentralized storage systems is Peer-to-Peer (P2P) networks. In a P2P network, each node in the network can access and store files from other nodes in the network without the need for a central server. This allows for a more secure, decentralized system as the data is not all stored in one place, making it much harder for hackers to access. Additionally, as the data is spread out across multiple nodes, it is easier for users to access the data they need, resulting in faster access times. 

Another type of decentralized storage system is blockchain-based storage. In this type of system, data is stored on the blockchain, a distributed ledger that records data in an immutable and secure manner. This makes it much harder for hackers to access or tamper with the data, and also allows users to access the data they need quickly. 

Additionally, blockchain-based storage is much more cost effective than traditional storage systems.
Some other types of decentralized storage systems are;

1. Distributed File System: A distributed file system is a type of file system that stores data files across multiple nodes in a network. Distributed file systems are advantageous because they are fault-tolerant, meaning that they can continue to function even if one or more of their components fail. 

2. Peer-to-Peer Storage: Peer-to-peer storage is a type of decentralized storage system where data is stored on multiple computers in a network rather than on one central server. This type of system is often used in peer-to-peer networks, such as BitTorrent, for sharing files. 

3. Blockchains: Blockchains are a type of decentralized storage system that is based on a distributed ledger technology. In a blockchain, data is stored on a series of blocks that are linked together in a chain. This type of system is used to securely store and process transactions, as well as to provide a secure way to store data. 

4. IPFS: Interplanetary File System (IPFS) is a type of peer-to-peer distributed file system. It is designed to store and share files in a decentralized manner. IPFS uses a content-addressed storage system, which allows for faster and more secure data storage and retrieval. 

5. Object Storage: Object storage is a type of storage system that stores data in the form of objects. Objects are stored in a distributed manner across multiple servers and can be accessed using APIs. Object storage is often used for storing large amounts of unstructured data, such as images, videos, and audio files.


# Short Comings Of the Decentralized Storage System

One of the primary short comings of decentralized storage systems is their scalability. As more data is added to the system, the performance of the system can suffer. This is due to the fact that all the data must be replicated across all the nodes in the system. 

The speed of the system is also limited by the speed of the slowest node in the system. This can be especially problematic if there is a node which has a slow connection or is running on older hardware. 
Decentralized storage systems are also not always as secure as other storage solutions. Even if the data is encrypted, if the system is hacked, the hacker can gain access to all the data stored across all the nodes. As such, it is important to make sure that the system is secure, and that the data is encrypted with strong encryption.

1. Limited Storage Capacity: Decentralized storage systems have a limited storage capacity due to the fact that each node in the system stores only a portion of the total data. This means that the total storage capacity of a system is limited by the number of nodes in the network. 

2. Poor Performance: Decentralized storage systems are often slower than centralized systems due to the fact that they require multiple nodes to communicate with each other in order to access and store data. This can result in increased latency and decreased throughput. 

3. Lack of Security: Decentralized storage systems are vulnerable to malicious attacks due to the lack of centralized control. This means that malicious actors can potentially access and corrupt data stored in the system. 

4. High Maintenance Costs: Decentralized storage systems require regular maintenance in order to ensure that data is stored in an efficient and secure manner. This can result in increased costs for organizations that use decentralized storage solutions. 

5. Complexity: Decentralized storage systems are often complex and difficult to manage due to the fact that they require multiple nodes to communicate with each other in order to access and store data. This can result in increased complexity for organizations that use decentralized storage solutions.


# Building a Decentralized Storage on Celo

Building a decentralized storage system on Celo with the use of a few different technologies. First, you'll need to use the Celo blockchain platform to store the data. This means setting up a Celo node with the ability to store and retrieve data. You'll also need to use a distributed ledger technology such as Ethereum to secure the data.
Finally, you'll need a file storage protocol such as IPFS (InterPlanetary File System) to store and distribute the data across the network. 

To start, you'll need to configure your Celo node to store the data. This involves setting up the blockchain, creating accounts, and connecting to the network. Once connected, you'll need to configure the node to store the data. 
This may include setting up a private key to encrypt the data and specifying the type of data that will be stored. Next, you'll need to configure Ethereum to secure the data. This involves setting up an Ethereum smart contract to store the data and control access to it. 

You'll also need to register the data on the Ethereum blockchain by creating a transaction to record the data. Finally, you'll need to configure the IPFS protocol to store and distribute the data. This involves setting up a node on the IPFS network and configuring it to store the data. Once configured, the data can be stored and distributed across the IPFS network. 

Once these technologies have been set up, the data can be stored and retrieved securely from the Celo blockchain platform. This is an ideal solution for organizations that need to store large amounts of data in a secure and decentralized manner.

On the other hand, if you want to build decentralized storage from scratch, you might want to consider the following steps;

1. Research existing decentralized storage systems: Start by researching existing decentralized storage solutions, such as IPFS, Storj, Sia, Filecoin, and others. Understand the differences between them, their advantages and disadvantages, and decide which best fits your needs. 

2. Develop a blockchain: Decide which blockchain you will use to build the decentralized storage system, such as Ethereum or Hyperledger Fabric. Develop the necessary smart contracts and APIs for the system. 

3. Design the architecture: Outline the architecture of the system, including the network topology, data storage, and security protocols. 

4. Create a data model: Create a data model that will be used to store the data in the system. This will include the data structure, data types, and the rules for how the data should be stored. 

5. Implement the backend: Develop the backend system for the decentralized storage system, including the necessary APIs and the logic for the system. 
6. Develop the front end: Develop the front end of the system, which will include the user interface, the logic for interacting with the system, and the security protocols. 

7. Test and deploy: Test the system thoroughly to make sure it is secure

## Conclusion​
Understanding the decentralized storage system with Celo is important for those looking to benefit from the technology. By leveraging the distributed storage of Celo, users can gain better control of their data and use it in a more secure and private environment.

Celo offers a low-cost solution for businesses and organizations looking to store data securely and reliably. With its advanced security and reliability, Celo can help users maintain their data privacy and ensure the integrity of their data. It is a great solution for those looking for a secure, reliable storage solution in the decentralized world.

## Next Steps​
Here are some other related tutorial articles you can follow up on to learn more about the Decentralilzed Storage:

* [Decentralized Storage Decoded: A Guide to Implementing IPFS DAGs and Merkle Trees](https://www.celosage.com/decentralized-storage-decoded-a-guide-to-implementing-ipfs-dags-and-merkle-trees/)

## About the Author​
Mayowa Julius Ogungbola

Is a Sotware Engineer and Technical writer @Celo, always open to working on new ideas. I enjoy working on [Github](https://github.com/Julius170/), you can connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/julius-ogungbola-a71810229/).
